AWS Deploy explanation
Launching EC2 instance
To deploy the application on AWS, I used a simple single-instance infrastructure based on Amazon EC2. 
Since this was a lightweight full-stack application intended for evaluation rather than high-scale production traffic, the goal was to keep the deployment simple, cost-effective, and easy to maintain while still following standard deployment practices.


I created a new EC2 instance through the AWS Console.
  



EC2 Configurations
I selected Ubuntu Server 24.04 LTS as the operating system. Ubuntu was chosen because it is one of the most stable and commonly used Linux distributions for application hosting, with strong community support and predictable package management.
  





For the instance type, I selected t3.small. This configuration provides:
* 2 vCPUs
* 2 GB RAM


This was sufficient for the application because the deployment included:
* a frontend container
* a backend container
* a headless browser process (Puppeteer)


The additional memory compared to smaller instance types (such as t3.micro) was important because Puppeteer requires noticeably more RAM than a standard API service.
  



For storage, I allocated 20 GB gp3 EBS volume. This was enough for:
* the operating system
* Docker images and containers
* application logs
* temporary runtime files


The gp3 volume type was selected because it provides a good balance between cost and performance for general-purpose workloads.
  



During instance creation, I configured a dedicated Security Group to control inbound traffic.
I allowed the following inbound rules:
* Port 22 (SSH) – restricted to my IP address only
* This was required for secure remote access to the server and restricted to a single trusted source for security reasons.
* Port 80 (HTTP) – open to the internet
* This allowed the application to be accessed publicly through the browser.
* Port 443 (HTTPS) – open to the internet
This was prepared in advance for SSL termination and secure HTTPS access later in the setup.
I intentionally did not expose application-level ports such as 3000, 8000, or 5432 publicly. Those ports were kept internal and only accessed through Docker networking and reverse proxy routing. This is a standard security practice to reduce the public attack surface.
  



To securely connect to the EC2 instance, I created a new RSA key pair during provisioning and downloaded the .pem private key.


This key was used for SSH authentication instead of password-based login, which is the recommended and more secure approach for server access.
  

  



EC2 Connection
After launching the EC2 instance, I connected to the server via SSH using the private .pem key generated during instance creation.


First, I retrieved the instance’s public IPv4 address from the AWS EC2 console. Then I used the downloaded private key to establish a secure SSH connection from my local machine.


Before connecting, I updated the file permissions of the private key to ensure it was only readable by the current user, which is required by SSH:
chmod 400 my-ec2-key.pem


I then connected to the server using:
ssh -i marketing-monitor-ec2-key.pem ubuntu@<EC2_PUBLIC_IP>


This authenticated the session using key-based SSH access rather than password authentication, which is significantly more secure and avoids exposing credentials over the network.


Using SSH key authentication reduced the risk of brute-force login attempts and followed standard security practices for remote server access.


Server Setup
After provisioning and connecting to the EC2 instance, I prepared the server for deployment by updating system packages and installing the required runtime dependencies.


1. First, I updated the Ubuntu package index and installed the latest security and system updates to ensure the server was running in a stable and up-to-date state.


2. Next, I installed Docker, which was used as the primary runtime for the application. Docker was chosen because both frontend and backend services were containerized, allowing the full stack to be deployed consistently in the same way across environments.


3. I then configured the ubuntu user to run Docker commands without requiring sudo, which simplified container management and deployment operations.


4. After that, I installed Git and cloned the application repository directly onto the server. This made it possible to build and run the application directly from source on the EC2 instance.


5. Once the repository was available locally, I created the production environment configuration by copying the example environment file and providing the required runtime values, such as API credentials, service configuration, and application secrets.


6. Finally, I started the application using Docker Compose, which built and launched the full stack in detached mode, allowing both frontend and backend services to run as isolated containers on the EC2 instance.


Live demo
The application is deployed on AWS and available at: http://34.226.244.231